In the "Observing Goals" thread, Don has listed the wide array of
telescopes and instruments that you will have access to during camp --
the goal of this thread is to suggest and discuss possible projects
that you may want to do.

Keep in mind that these projects are simply suggestions -- you are
more than welcome to come up with your own ideas -- although these
particular projects have been chosen to be "doable" with the available
facilities and with the available time. Also keep in mind that you
don't have to show up at camp knowing exactly what you want to do --
we'll be talking a lot about this the first couple days.

So, here are some ideas of things you can do using the B&C optical
spectrograph at the 2.3-meter Bok telescope. A spectrograph is like a
prism that allows you to see many different colors (or wavelengths) of
light at the same time -- think of a rainbow.

1) Build a "stellar spectral atlas" by observing a wide range of stars
-- from red supergiants like Betelgeuse
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Betelgeuse to the much more common
"dwarf" stars (like the Sun, which is a G-type dwarf star). Analyze
and understand your spectral atlas.

2) Measure the "metallicity" of M101, the "Pinwheel Galaxy"
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messier_101) from its center to its
outer regions. The "metallicity" of an object is the sum of all the
elements heavier than hydrogen and helium (like oxygen, nitrogen,
etc.). Think about and discuss the implications for the "galactic
habitable zone" (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone) in M101.

3) Measure the amount of interstellar dust
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmic_dust) in different directions
through our Milky Way galaxy. Dust is very important for nearly all
observations that astronomers make, so the goal of this project would
be to understand the importance of "dust" in galaxies.

4) There is a special class of binary (double) star systems called
"nova-like cataclysmic variables" (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nova)
in which one star eclipses (passes in front of) the other star every
3-4 hours. These systems are interesting because one star is actually
cannibalizing the other star very slowly. There is a large amount of
information we can learn about these kinds of star systems, especially
the "cannibalization" process, with optical spectroscopy, so the idea
would be to learn as much as possible from the data you acquire. If
we're ambitious we'll go after a brand new nova-like variable that the
Kepler (http://kepler.nasa.gov) mission just discovered.

5) Many galaxies have supermassive black holes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supermassive_black_hole in their nucleus
(center), although there is a lot that we still don't understand about
them. The goal of this project would be to observe the nuclei of a
number of nearby galaxies to look for the signature of a black hole in
their centers, and to speculate on why some galaxies do or do not have
a black hole.

6) BONUS project! If a sufficiently bright supernova
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supernova) explodes the week before or
even during camp we will observe it with both the B&C spectrograph and
with one or more of our imaging camera. This website
(http://www.rochesterastronomy.org/supernova.html) is an up-to-date
list of all the supernova that have recently exploded and which are
still relatively bright. If we get lucky and an "interesting"
supernova goes off during camp then it's possible that the data we
take will end up being published in a professional astronomical
journal.

Have fun!
John
